.TH jk_uchroot 8 07-02-2010 JAILKIT jk_uchroot

.SH NAME
jk_uchroot \- grant regular users the right to change root into certain directories

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B jk_uchroot -j <jail> -x <executable>

.SH DESCRIPTION

jk_uchroot can be used to give regular users access to the chroot() system call in a safe way. jk_uchroot will only grant chroot into a jail if the configuration file lists this user and jail combination. jk_uchroot will furthermore only grant access if the chroot jail is safe. Safe means that it is owned by uid 0 gid 0 and not writable for others, including the system directories such as  /bin, /lib, /dev/, /sbin, and /usr.

jk_uchroot needs certain elevated privileges to make the 
.BR chroot(2)
system call. Therefore it is setuid root. It will drop its root priveleges immediately after making the chroot() system call. Since Jailkit 2.8 jk_uchroot may also use the CAP_SYS_CHROOT capability on systems that support capabilities, and then the setuid bit can be removed.

.nf
.sp
[john]
allowed_jails = /srv/johnjail, /srv/commonjail
skip_injail_passwd_check = 1

[group users]
allowed_jails = /srv/commonjail
skip_injail_passwd_check = 1

.fi

In the above example jk_uchroot is configured not to check if the user exists in the /etc/passwd file in the jails. 

.SH FILES

.I /etc/jailkit/jk_uchroot.ini

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

jk_uchroot logs everything to syslog, please check the log files. Logging is sent to the LOG_AUTH facility with levels LOG_ERR and LOG_CRIT for critical errors, LOG_NOTICE for non-critical errors,  and LOG_INFO for normal events.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR jailkit(8)
.BR jk_check(8)
.BR jk_chrootlaunch(8)
.BR jk_chrootsh(8)
.BR jk_cp(8)
.BR jk_init(8)
.BR jk_jailuser(8)
.BR jk_list(8)
.BR jk_lsh(8)
.BR jk_procmailwrapper(8)
.BR jk_socketd(8)
.BR jk_update(8)
.BR chroot(2)
.BR syslogd(8)

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, Olivier Sessink

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
